304 XENOPHON’S ANABASIS [2,1

... AaBov... éywv .. . dveBn, 51, 8 f. So, too, in English, as
“Children ought not to lay up for the parents, but the parents for the
children,” 2 Corinthians 12. 14.

105, 14. wvvOavépevor: imperfect participle, denoting the gradual
spread of the news.

105, 15. "AAA’: see on 84, 19. — dede . . . Lv: would that Cyrus
were alive! (lit. Cyrus ought to be alive). This construction is con-
fined to unattainable or hopeless wishes.}

105, 16. wix@pev: for the tense, see on vix@vras, 93, 8.

105, 18. éropevépeOa Gv: we should now be on our way, present con-
trary to fact apodosis, with a past protasis.?

105, 20. TOv . . . viKkévrev: see on Tisoadéepvous, 52, 19. — paxnv:
cognate accusative, 7 battle.

105, 21. Td &pxew: subject of éori; cp. To . . . vtKay, 99, 2

106, I. tots dyyé\ous: Procles and Glus.

106, 3. éBotAero: weshed zt. Possibly Menon hoped to win great
advantages for himself by intriguing to betray the Greeks to Ariaeus
and the Persians. For previous instances of Menon’s selfish spirit, see
63, 13 f.; 74, 12 and note.

106, 4. of pév: ¢hey, contrasted with KAéapyxos S€; for the usual cor-
relative, see on 52, 24.— mweptepeve: observe that zrepé does not suffer
elision.® .

106, 5. Srws (= Ws) Bbvaro: as best they could.

106, 6. xémrovres: plural with the collective noun orpdrevya, which
implies a plural.

106, 7. §vAows: as firewood; in apposition with the following datives,
for which see on @uXia, 65, 2.— pixpdv: cognate accusative, a short
distance.

106, 8. ov: fo the place where.

106, 10. qvayKafov: the imperfect has a pluperfect force (cp. érotnoe,
51, 6), but the action, completed in past time, had been repeated, Aad
Jrom time to time compelled, as the various squads of deserters came to
them. These are mentioned in ror, 24.

106, 11. &PddAev: z.¢. out of their quivers, as a precaution against
treachery.

HA. B. G. GI.
1 871a 588, 2 1512 470 &
2 895 606 1397 649
3 3604 504 . 33 4
