

διαλέγομαι, διαλέξομαι, διείλεγμαι, διε-

λέχθην [ λέγω, speak; bor., Eng.
dialogue, dialect], speak with, con-
verse with, with dat.; talk about,
with acc.

διαλείπω [λείπω, leave], leave an in-
terval between, stand at intervals,
be apart, τὸ διαλεῖπον, the interval.

διαμπερές [διά, ἀνά, up, cp. πείρω,
pierce], adv., through and through,
clear through.

διανοέομαι [νοέω, perceive, think]
(think a thing through), intend,
purpose.

διαπέμπω [πέμπω, send], send in dif-
erent directions, send round.

διαπολεμέω [πολεμέω, be at war],
fight to the bitter end, fight it out.

διαπορεύω [πορεύω, cause to go], cause
fo cross, carry over, set across, as
pass. dep., pass through, traverse.

διαπράττω [πράττω, do], commonly
in mid., accomplish, effect, bring
about, secure, obtain, with acc.,
inf, or acc. and inf.; gain one’s
point, stipulate.

διαρπάζω [ἁρπάζω, seize], seize and
carry off (in different directions),
plunder, loot, Lat. diripio.

διασημαίνω [σημαίνω, make a sign],
indicate, disclose.

διασκηνέω [σκηνέω, be in camp], en-
camp separately, go into separate
quarters.

διασκηνητέον (verbal of διασκηνέω),
Impers., necessary to take separate
quarters.

διασκηνόω [σκηνόω, encamp], encamp
separately, be quartered separately.

διασπάω [σπάω, draw], draw apart,
separate, scatter; τὸ διεσπάσθαι, the
scattered condition.

διασπείρω [σπείρω, σπερῶ, ἔσπειρα,
ἔσπαρμαι, ἐσπάρην, sow], scatter, as



in sowing; scatter, disperse, Lat.
dispergo.



διασφενδονάω [σφενδονάω, use a
sling], sling or hurl in different
dtrections.



διατάττω [τάττω, draw up], draw
up, set in array, post here and
there, Lat. dispond.

διατελέω [τελέω, finish], finish com-
pletely; sc. ὁδόν, complete the dis-
tance; with ptc., continue, keep on.
Cp. διάγω.

διατήκω [τήκω, melt], melt through or
away.

διατίθημι [τίθημι, place], place apart,
arrange; of persons, treat.

διατρέφω [τρέφω, nourish], nourish
thoroughly, support.

διατρίβω [τρίβω, τρίψω, ἔτριψα, τέ-
τριφα, τέτρίμμαι, ἐτρίφθην or more
commonly ἐτρίβην, rub, bor., Eng.
diatribe], rub through, rub away ;
esp. of time, waste, spend, so with
no word for time expressed, waste
time, delay.

διαφερόντως [διαφέρω], adv., differ-
ently; especially, preéminently,

διαφέρω [φέρω, bear, cogn., Lat.
differ, differ], bear apart, differ
from; excel, be better than; differ
with, dispute; with inf. as subject,
be a different thing.

διαφθείρω [φθείρω, destroy], destroy
utterly; corrupt, bribe; injure, οἱ
διεφθαρμένοι τοὺς ὀφθαλμούς, those
who had had their eyes blinded.

διάφορος, -ον [διαφέρω], different.
Neut. as subst., cause of difference
or of disagreement.

διαχειρίζω [χειρίξω (χείρ, hand),
handle], have in hand, manage.

διαχωρῷ [χωρέω, advance], go
