VOCABULARY

καταληψόμενος, Ξεε καταλαμβάνω.

καταλιπόντες, 566 καταλείπω.

καταλλάττω [ἀλλάττω, ἀλλάξω, ἤλ-
λαξα, «ἤλλαχα, ἤλλαγμαι, ἠλλάχθην
and ἠλλάγην, change], change, esp.
from enmity to friendship, reconcile.

xaradtw [Adw, loose], unyoke pack
animals, λα, 5ς. πόλεμον, end hos-
tilities, make peace.

καταμανθάνω [μανθάνω, learn), learn
thoroughly, observe well, see.

κατανοέω [vodw, perceive], observe
carefully, percetve.

καταπέμπω [πέμπω, :ἐγ4]1, send down
to the seacoast (cp. xaraBalyw).

καταπεσεῖν, 5:6 καταπίπτω,

καταπετρόω [πετρόω, ἐπετρώθην (πέ-
τρος, @ stone), stone], stone to
death,

καταπηδάω [πηδάω, πηδήσομαι, ἐπή-
δησα, -«πεπήδηκα, leap), leap down.

καταπίπτω [πίπτω, fall], fall down
or off.

καταπλήττω [-πλήττω, -πλήξω,
«ἔπληξα, πέπληγα, πέπληγμαι, ἐπλή-
ynv and (regularly in cpds.) -erdd-
Ύην, strike), strike down, esp. with
fear, terrify.

katamparra [xpdrrw, do], do com-
pletely, accomplish.

κατασκέπτομαι [σκέπτομαι, view],
view closely or carefully, inspect.

κατασκευνάζω ἰ[σκευάζω, σκευάσω,
ἐσκεύασα, ἐσκεύασμαι, -εσκευάσθην,
prepare), prepare fully, equip, fur-
nish; administer well, improve;
mid., make careful preparations.

κατασκηνάω [σκηνάω (σκηνή, tent),
put under a tent \, encamp.

κατασκηνόω [σκηνόω (σκηνή, tent),
encamp |, encamp.

κατασπάω [σπάω, draw], draw or
drag down.

καταστήσᾶς, 566 καθίστημι.

Google

 

459

καταστρατοπεδεύομαι [στρατοπεδεύ-
oat, encamp |, settle down in camp,
encamp.

καταστρέφω [στρέφω, turn, bor.,
Eng. catastrophe], ¢urn down,
mid., overthrow, subdue.

κατασφάττω [σφάττω, slaughter), cut
down, kell. ΄

κατασχεῖν, 5ε6 κατέχω.

kararelvw [reivw, stretch], stretch
tight; intr., stretch or strain one-
self, strive earnestly, insist.

katarépvw [réuvw, cut], cut down into
the ground, aig; cut up, cut to
pleces.

kararlOnpe [TlOnu, put], put or lay
down ; mid., for one’s own benefit,
lay up or aside, store away, give
into one’s keeping, deposit.

karatirpooKke [TiTpwoKw, wound |,
wound severely,

καταφαγεῖν, Ξεε κατεσθίω.

καταφανής, -és [palyw, show], tn
sight, visible.

katadetya [petyw, flee], flee down,
free for refuge.

katadpovéw [dppovtw, think] (think
down on), look down on, despise.

κατέαξαν, see card yviju.

κατεθέμην, 5εε κατατίθημι.

κατεῖδον, 566 καθοράω.

κατειλήφει, κατελήφθη, Ξεε καταλαμ-
βάνω.

κατεργάζομαι [ἐργάζομαι, work],
achieve, accomplish, bring to pass.

κατεσθίω [ἐσθίω, eat], eat up. For
κατά, cp. Eng. ‘gobble down.’

κατέστησε, 5εε καθίστημι.

katerérunvro, see kaTaréuvw.

κατέτρωσαν, 5εε κατατιτρώσκω.

κατέχω [ἔχω, λομα, ἀοία ἄρτου», λοϊα
fast, restrain; constrain, compel,
hold, occupy a place; cover a space.

κατίδοιεν, κατιδόντας, 5:6 καθοράω.
